Backported party migration macro improvements to 2.8.1 (#624)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.8.0/docs/canton/usermanual/identity_management.rst

    Please note that the ``participant.parties.enable`` macro will add the parties to the same namespace as the participant is in.
    It only works if the participant has authority over that namespace either by possessing the root or a delegated key.

.. _separate-party-migration:

Client Controlled Party
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. enterprise-only::

.. note::

>     - The improved macros are available in Daml Enterprise 2.x starting with 2.8.1.
>     - Please note that party migration in 2.x comes with limitations. Please read the documentation carefully.
>     - The marcos only work with protocol version 4 or higher.
>     - The involved participants must be entirely quiet during the migration. Therefore, the migration can only happen during a maintanenace window of the domain where the rate is set to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The improved macros are available in Daml Enterprise 2.x as of release 2.8.1.
    - In 2.x, party migration has limitations. Please read the documentation carefully.
    - The macros work with protocol version 4 or later.
    - The involved participants must be entirely quiet during the migration. Therefore, the migration can only happen during a maintenance window of the domain where the rate is set to 0.
```

Reviewer: This change includes applying these style guidelines:

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#please
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#higher

Author: fixed

    - The target participant must not know about any contract involving the party prior to the migration.

Parties are only weakly tied to participant nodes. They can be allocated in their own namespace and then
be delegated to a given participant. For simplicity and convenience, the participant creates new parties
in its own namespace by default, but there are situations where this is not desired.

A common scenario is that you first host the party on behalf of your client, but subsequently hand over

> the party to the client's own node. With the default party allocation, this would mean that you will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the party to the client's own node. With the default party allocation, you would
```

Author: fixed

    .. success:: val partyDelegation = client.topology.party_to_participant_mappings.authorize(TopologyChangeOp.Add, partyId, hostingNodeId, RequestSide.From)
    .. success:: BinaryFileUtil.writeByteStringToFile("partyDelegation.bin", partyDelegation)

The client now shares the ``rootCert.bin`` and ``partyDelegation.bin`` files with the hosting node. The hosting
node imports them into their topology state:

.. snippet:: client_controlled_party
    .. success:: hosting.topology.load_transaction(BinaryFileUtil.tryReadByteStringFromFile("rootCert.bin"))
    .. success:: hosting.topology.load_transaction(BinaryFileUtil.tryReadByteStringFromFile("partyDelegation.bin"))

Finally, the hosting node needs to issue the corresponding topology transaction to enable the party on its node:

.. snippet:: client_controlled_party
    .. success:: hosting.topology.party_to_participant_mappings.authorize(TopologyChangeOp.Add, partyId, hosting.id, RequestSide.To)
    .. hidden:: utils.synchronize_topology()
    .. assert:: hosting.parties.hosted("Client").nonEmpty

An alternative method would be to issue an identifier delegation certificate to a key controlled by the hosting node.

> In this case, the party wouldn't be delegated to a specific participant, but the unique identifier would be delegated to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the party wouldn't be delegated to a specific participant. Instead, the unique identifier would be delegated to a
```

Author: fixed

specific key, which would then in turn be able to delegate the party to a participant.

.. _offline-party-migration:

Replicate Party to Another Participant Node
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. enterprise-only::

The weak coupling of parties to participants allows you to migrate parties together with their active contract set from
one participant node to another. The process described below uses a specific set of commands which have to be executed in the right order with some care.

We assume that there are three participants: The ``sourceParticipant`` from which the existing contract set will be copied,
a ``targetParticipant`` to which the contract set will be copied, and a ``controllingParticipant`` that owns the party.
In some cases, the controlling participant will be the same as the source participant, but this is not required.

.. note::

    Please note that the entire system needs to be totally quiet for this process to succeed. You

>     currently can not migrate a party under load on 2.x. If you migrate a party on a system that processes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    currently cannot migrate a party under load on 2.x. If you migrate a party on a system that processes
```

Author: fixed

    .. hidden:: participant1.parties.enable("Alice")
    .. hidden:: participants.all.domains.connect_local(mydomain)
    .. hidden:: val sourceParticipant = participant1
    .. hidden:: val controllingParticipant = participant1
    .. hidden:: val targetParticipant = participant2

This is necessary as otherwise the contract set might change, or there might be inflight transactions and locked
contracts which would confuse the newly onboarded participant.

Assuming there is a party named ``Alice`` permissioned on the ``sourceParticipant``, you first download
the active contract set of the party:

.. snippet:: party_migration
    .. hidden:: participant1.topology.synchronisation.await_idle()
    .. success:: val alice = sourceParticipant.parties.find("Alice")
    .. hidden:: com.digitalasset.canton.concurrent.Threading.sleep(2000)
    .. success:: repair.party_migration.step1_store_acs(sourceParticipant, Set(alice), "alice.acs.gz")

This will store all the contracts into the file. If the file ends with ".gz", then the content will be compressed.
After transferring the file to the target participant, you first need to disconnect the target participant from the

> domain, as the repair service can not run with an active domain connection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
domain, because the repair service cannot run with an active domain connection:
```

Author: fixed

.. snippet:: party_migration
    .. success:: targetParticipant.domains.disconnect_all()

Once disconnected, import the contracts using the next repair macro:

.. snippet:: party_migration
    .. success:: repair.party_migration.step2_import_acs(targetParticipant, Set(alice), "alice.acs.gz")

> While this step has imported the contracts, the party is still not enabled on the target participant. For a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this step has imported the contracts, the party is still not enabled on the target participant. For a
```

Author: fixed

party to be delegated to a participant, both the owner of the party and the participant need to issue the
required topology transactions. If the controlling participant is connected to the domain, you run the next
step:

.. snippet:: party_migration
    .. hidden:: val targetParticipantId = targetParticipant.id
    .. hidden:: targetParticipant.domains.reconnect_all()
    .. success:: repair.party_migration.step3_delegate_party_to_target_node(controllingParticipant, Set(alice), targetParticipantId)
    .. hidden:: utils.synchronize_topology()

This will issue the party to participant topology transaction of type ``From``. The ``To`` transaction must be
issued on the ``targetParticipant``, using the fourth step. The participant must be connected to the domain for this step:

.. snippet:: party_migration
    .. success:: targetParticipant.domains.reconnect_all()
    .. success:: repair.party_migration.step4_enable_party_on_target(targetParticipant, Set(alice))

After this step, the party is enabled on the target participant and the active contract set has been migrated,

> but the party is now hosted by both, ``sourceParticipant`` and ``targetParticipant``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but the party is now hosted by both ``sourceParticipant`` and ``targetParticipant``.
```

Author: fixed
